{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14680\viewh23980\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \
5. The Parameters\
\
5.1 Edit Level 1, VCF Envelope\
\
This is where you can adjust the VCF envelope\'92s parameters. The\
attack phase of the envelope is activated via a MIDI Note On\
message or an audio trigger. The release phase is activated via a\
MIDI Note Off message or at the point when the trigger signal\'92s\
decay value drops lower than a specific defined value. The current\
volume level is used as the reference value. In other words, the\
level is not automatically set to \'930\'94 at the start of the envelope.\
You can start envelopes at any time via the <Manual Trigger> key.\
The VCF envelope is used primarily to control the cutoff\
frequency (refer to Section 5.5, <Cutoff>), but it can also be used\
to modulate other parameters.\
\
Attack\
Value range of 0...127\
<Attack> describes the ascent rate of the envelope. At an initial\
level of zero, the value of 0 is equivalent to approx. 2 milliseconds;\
64 equals one second; 127 equals approx. one minute.\
\
Decay\
Value range of 0...127\
<Decay> is the descent rate of the envelope until it reaches the\
defined sustain value. If the sustain value is equal to zero, then\
the attack values pertain.\
\
Sustain\
Value range of 0...127\
<Sustain> is the level at which the envelope remains constant\
until the start of the release phase.\
\
Release\
Value range of 0...127\
<Release> is the rate at which the value descends to zero. If the\
sustain value is 127, then the attack values pertain.\
\
\
5.2 Edit Level 2, VCA Envelope\
\
This is the volume envelope. The information discussed above the\
VCF envelope\'92s parameters also pertains to the VCA parameters.\
The VCA envelope can also be used for modulations. Additionally,\
the product of the VCA envelope and the LFO is also available for\
use as a modulator (see chapter 6.).\
\
\
5.3 Edit Level 3\
This is where you set the amount of effect the VCF envelope has\
on the VCF, VCA and LFO parameters.\
\
VCF Env Cutoff\
Value range of -64.. +63\
Determines the amount of effect the VCF envelope has on the\
cutoff frequency. Negative values lower the cutoff frequency.\
\
VCA Env Volume\
Value range of -64.. +63\
Determines the amount of effect the VCA envelope has on the\
volume. Negative values lower the volume.\
\
LFO Speed\
Value range of 1.. 127\
Determines the frequency of the low-frequency oscillator, also\
called the LFO. Its frequency range is from approx. 0.008 Hz to\
261,6 Hz.\
\
LFO Shape\
Determines the LFO\'92s waveshape.\
Sin - Sine\
Tri - Triangle\
SA. - Sawtooth\
PLS - Pulse (Square)\
S-H Sample & Hold\
\
\
5.4 Edit Level 4, Modulations\
\
You can define the modulations for cutoff, resonance, volume\
and stereo panning at this level. Press <shift> and use the\
appropriate knob to select the source of the modulation and\
<LFO Speed Mod Src>.\
\
Cutoff Mod\
Value range of -64.. +63\
Determines the extent of the cutoff frequency modulation\
generated by the modulation source you defined via <Cutoff Mod\
Src>.\
\
Reso Mod\
Value range of -64.. +63\
Determines the extent of the resonance modulation generated\
by the modulation source you defined via <Reso Mod Src>.\
\
Volume Mod\
Value range of -64.. +63\
<Volume Mod> determines the extent of the volume modulation\
generated by the modulation source you defined via <Volume\
Mod Src>.\
\
Pan Mod\
Value range of -64.. +63\
<Pan Mod> determines the extent of the stereo panning\
modulation generated by the modulation source you defined via\
<Pan Mod Src>.\
\
5.5 Edit Level 5\
You can define the values for the cutoff frequency, resonance,\
volume and stereo panning at this level.\
\
Cutoff\
Value range of 0.. 127\
Determines the filter cutoff frequency.\
\
Resonance\
Value range of 0.. 127\
Determines the amount of amplification in the range of the\
cutoff frequency, which is called the resonance. High values cause\
self-oscillation and an audible tone. This effect is not an error, it is\
supposed to happen.\
\
Volume\
Value range of 0.. 127\
Determines the basic volume. You of course must lower the\
volume when you want to make volume changes via the VCA\
envelope.\
\
Panning\
Value range of -64.. +63\
Determines the position within in the stereo panorama. -64 is the\
far left position and +63 the far right.\
\
5.6 Edit Level 6\
At this level, you can define the diverse parameters that\
determine how the two envelopes are triggered during the attack\
phase. The controls on the right are used to set global parameters\
that apply equally to all 40 programs.\
\
Gate Time\
Value range of 000.. 508, 1.00...1.02\
<Gate time> is the duration following a trigger during which no\
new triggers are accepted. This time is displayed in milliseconds\
(000 to 508).\
\
Source\
\
<Source> determines how the envelopes are triggered.\
\
Aud - Triggering via audio. If you have not inserted a plug in the\
<Trigger In> jack, the 4-Pole accesses the <Audio In> signal.\
\
MID - Triggering via MIDI Note On/Off messages sent through the\
designated channel (refer to Section 5.6, <MIDI Channel>).\
\
ALL - Triggering via both audio and MIDI.\
\
Trigger\
\
<Trigger> determines the envelope trigger mode.\
Mul - Triggers are accepted at all times.\
\
SnG - Triggers are accepted only when the envelopes have run\
their course or when they are in the release phase.\
\
MIDI Control\
\
This global parameter determines the type of MIDI messages that\
are sent.\
\
OFF - Program Change, Note On/Off for audio/manual triggers\
and System Exclusive data are sent.\
\
Ctr - Additionally, Controllers are sent when program parameters\
are changed (refer to Chapter 9).\
\
CtS - Controllers for the program parameters are sent and\
additionally, the signal envelope\'92s output is sent as a Breath\
Controller, Ctr.#2.\
\
MIDI Note\
Value range In, C -1 c.-1, D-1 ... F.9, G9\
You can determine which MIDI note number is sent for an audio\
or manual trigger. If you enter \'93In\'94, then the last note the 4-Pole\
received via the designated MIDI channel is sent. The value range\
encompasses C#-1 to G9. The sharp symbol (#) is displayed as a\
period.\
\
MIDI Channel\
Set the device\'92s send and recieve channels here.\
c.OM - Omni Mode; MIDI messages are received via all channels\
and sent via Channel 1.\
\
c.1 - c. 16 Channels 1 -16 for sending and receiving MIDI\
messages.\
\
Device ID\
Section 7.5).\
Enter the device ID for System Exclusive messages here (refer to\
\
\
6. Modulation Sources\
\
For your convenience, all available modulation sources are listed\
in a table on the device (refer to Chapter 2)\
\
The modulation sources are:\
\
0 Off\
No modulation.\
\
1 LFO\
The output of the low-fequency oscillator, the acronym for which\
is LFO.\
\
2 LFO * ModS.\
The LFO is scaled according to the value of the MIDI Modulation\
Controller #1. If you are addressing the 4-Pole with a keyboard,\
you can control the LFO\'92s modulation depth via its modulation\
wheel.\
\
3 LFO * Aftertouch\
The LFO is scaled according to the MIDI Channel Pressure value.\
\
4 LFO * VCA Env\
The LFO is scaled according to the VCA envelope value.\
\
5 VCF Env\
The VCF envelope; refer to Section 5.1.\
\
6 VCA Env\
The VCA envelope; refer to Section 5.2.\
\
7 Signal Env\
The trigger signal\'92s envelope. If you have not inserted a plug in\
the <Trigger In> jack, the 4-Pole will access the <Audio In> signal.\
The trigger signal envelope is also called the \'93envelope follower.\'94\
\
8 Vel * VCA Env\
The VCA Envelope is scaled according to the MIDI Note On velocity\
value.\
\
9 Velocity\
MIDI Note On velocity.\
\
10 Keytrack\
MIDI Keytrack. For manual/audio triggers, the note number you\
entered via <MIDI Note> is accessed.\
\
11 Pitch Bend\
MIDI pitch bend.\
\
12 ModWheel\
MIDI Controller #1, Modulation Wheel.\
\
13 Aftertouch\
MIDI Channel Pressure.\
\
14 Breath Ctr.\
MIDI Controller #2, Breath Control. For modulation purposes, you\
can play back a signal envelope you recorded previously to a\
sequencer.\
\
15 Foot Ctr.\
MIDI Controller #4, Foot Controller\
\
\
7. MIDI Control\
\
7.1 Program Change\
\
The 4-Pole sends a Program Change message containing the new\
program number everytime a program is changed. When it\
receives this type of message via the proper MIDI channel (refer to\
Section 5.6, <MIDI Channel>), the new program is activated.\
\
7.2 Note On/Off\
\
When an envelope is triggered via <Manual Trigger> or <Audio\
Trigger>, a Note On message is sent. The note number will be the\
one you defined via <MIDI Note>. The appropriate Note Off\
message is sent at the end of the trigger sequence. Incoming\
notes trigger the envelopes when the <Source> parameter is set\
to MIDI or ALL.\
\
7.3 Controller\
\
If the <MIDI Control> parameter is set to Ctr, then all changes to\
the program are sent as Controller messages. When these\
messages are received, the appropriate parameters are changed.\
This feature lets you record all changes to a sequencer (refer to\
Chapter 9, \'93Controller Numbers\'94). If the <MIDI Control> parameter\
is set to CtS, then the siganl envelope is sent as a Breath\
Controller. The Modulation Wheel Controller, Breath Controller\
and Foot Controller are available for use as modulation sources.\
\
7.4 Pitch Bend, Aftertouch\
\
These are also available for use as modulation sources.\
\
\
\
}